---
layout: page
title: ISR and RSR
description: Relighting from a Single Image. Datasets and Deep Intrinsic-based Architecture, IEEE TMM 2025
img: assets/img/datasets/relighting-single-image/teaser.gif
importance: 1
category: work
related_publications: true
date: 05-2025
---

Single image scene relighting aims to generate a realistic new version of an input image so that it appears to be illuminated by a new target light condition. In our paper: "<a href='https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.18770'>Relighting from a Single Image: Datasets and Deep Intrinsic-based Architecture</a>", we propose two new datasets: a synthetic dataset with the ground truth of intrinsic components (ISR) and a real dataset collected under laboratory conditions (RSR).

### ISR: Intrinsic Scene Relighting Dataset

The images of this first dataset are generated by the opensource Blender rendering engine. This dataset includes
intrinsic components in the grount truth. The ISR has 7801 scenes, each one under 10 different light conditions. Each scene has between 3 and 10 nonoverlapping objects which are randomly selected from various categories of the ShapeNet dataset including electronics, pots, buses, cars, chairs, sofas, and airplanes. For more details, please check our <a href='https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.18770'>paper</a> and <a href='https://github.com/CVC-CIC/DeepIntrinsicRelighting'>GitHub repo</a>.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/datasets/relighting-single-image/IRS.png" title="ISR dataset" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    Illustrations of some examples from the dataset, showing the images along with their corresponding reflectances and shading. We also show the coordinate system employed in the dataset, which includes the pan and tilt.
</div>

The dataset can be downloaded separately by: [Reflectance](https://cvcuab-my.sharepoint.com/personal/yixiong_cvc_uab_cat/_layouts/15/onedrive.aspx?id=%2Fpersonal%2Fyixiong%5Fcvc%5Fuab%5Fcat%2FDocuments%2FDeepIntrinsicRelighting%2FISR%5Frelease%2FReflectance%2Ezip&parent=%2Fpersonal%2Fyixiong%5Fcvc%5Fuab%5Fcat%2FDocuments%2FDeepIntrinsicRelighting%2FISR%5Frelease&ga=1), [Shading](https://cvcuab-my.sharepoint.com/personal/yixiong_cvc_uab_cat/_layouts/15/onedrive.aspx?id=%2Fpersonal%2Fyixiong%5Fcvc%5Fuab%5Fcat%2FDocuments%2FDeepIntrinsicRelighting%2FISR%5Frelease%2FShading%2Ezip&parent=%2Fpersonal%2Fyixiong%5Fcvc%5Fuab%5Fcat%2FDocuments%2FDeepIntrinsicRelighting%2FISR%5Frelease&ga=1) and [Images](https://cvcuab-my.sharepoint.com/personal/yixiong_cvc_uab_cat/_layouts/15/onedrive.aspx?id=%2Fpersonal%2Fyixiong%5Fcvc%5Fuab%5Fcat%2FDocuments%2FDeepIntrinsicRelighting%2FISR%5Frelease%2FImage%2Ezip&parent=%2Fpersonal%2Fyixiong%5Fcvc%5Fuab%5Fcat%2FDocuments%2FDeepIntrinsicRelighting%2FISR%5Frelease&ga=1). You can download only the Reflectance and Shading, as the image can be calculated from them in the code. **Note**: The name of the picture is: {Index of scene (part 1)}_{Index of scene (part 2)}_{pan}_{tilt}_{light temperature}_{not use}. The first two numbers represent the scene ID, while pan, tilt, and light temperature represent the lighting parameters.

### RSR: Real scene relighting dataset

To validate the effectiveness of our method in real-world scenes, we developed the real scene-relighting (RSR) dataset. The RSR dataset is acquired in a lab with an automatic setup. We use a DSLR Nikon D5200 camera to capture the images. The scene area is lighted with a 3 × 3 multicolored led light matrix. The scene is set on a rotatable table. This acquisition system is shown in the below figure. Each scene is composed of a background and several objects. The library of backgrounds has 8 textured options. We carefully choose a set of 80 real-life objects sampling a wide range of materials and shapes. From glossy to matte materials and from natural to basic shapes. The objects are organized into 3 groups, 20 natural (organic and stone), 40 manufactured (plastic, paper, glass, or metal), and 20 basic (foam) shapes.

<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/datasets/relighting-single-image/RSR.png" title="RSR dataset" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
<div class="caption">
    We show the platform for building the dataset, the collection of objects in the dataset and some examples of our dataset with different light positions and colors.
</div>

The dataset with original resolution can be downloaded [here](https://cvcuab-my.sharepoint.com/personal/yixiong_cvc_uab_cat/_layouts/15/onedrive.aspx?id=%2Fpersonal%2Fyixiong%5Fcvc%5Fuab%5Fcat%2FDocuments%2FDeepIntrinsicRelighting%2FRSR%5Fori%5Fresolution%2Ezip&parent=%2Fpersonal%2Fyixiong%5Fcvc%5Fuab%5Fcat%2FDocuments%2FDeepIntrinsicRelighting&ga=1).

The dataset with 256x256 resolution can be downloaded [here](https://cvcuab-my.sharepoint.com/personal/yixiong_cvc_uab_cat/_layouts/15/onedrive.aspx?id=%2Fpersonal%2Fyixiong%5Fcvc%5Fuab%5Fcat%2FDocuments%2FDeepIntrinsicRelighting%2FRSR%5F256%2Ezip&parent=%2Fpersonal%2Fyixiong%5Fcvc%5Fuab%5Fcat%2FDocuments%2FDeepIntrinsicRelighting&ga=1).

**Note**: 1) The name of the picture is: {index of picture}_{index of group (different scene or different view)}_{pan}_{tilt}_{R}_{G}_{B}_{index of scene}_{not use}_{index of view}_{index of light position}. The quantities that need attention are pan, tilt, and color (RGB), which represent the parameters of the light. 2) The order of the lights are as follow:

|  5  |  4  |  3  |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  **6**  |  **1**  |  **2**  |
|  **7**  |  **8**  |  **9**  |

